Software 0.30 base PR (#1041)
astronomer/docs: software_versioned_docs/version-0.29/ac-support-policy.md

---
title: "Astronomer Certified versioning and support"
sidebar_label: "Versioning and support policy"
id: ac-support-policy
description: Versioning and lifecycle policy for Astronomer Certified, our Apache Airflow offering for Astronomer Software.
---

> Astronomer Certified (AC) is a Debian-based, production-ready distribution of Apache Airflow that mirrors the open source project and undergoes additional levels of rigorous testing conducted by our team. New versions of AC are issued regularly based on Apache Airflow's community release schedule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Astronomer Certified (AC) is a Debian-based, production-ready distribution of Apache Airflow that mirrors the open source project and undergoes additional levels of rigorous testing. New versions of AC are issued regularly and follow the Apache Airflow release schedule.
```

> This Docker image is hosted on [Astronomer's Docker registry](https://quay.io/repository/astronomer/ap-airflow?tab=tags) and allows you to run Airflow on Astronomer. All projects require that you specify an AC image in your `Dockerfile`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This Docker image is hosted on the [Astronomer Docker registry](https://quay.io/repository/astronomer/ap-airflow?tab=tags) and allows you to run Airflow on Astronomer. All projects require that you specify an AC image in your `Dockerfile`.
```

> This document provides information on the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document provides the following information:
```

- How AC is versioned
- Which versions of AC are currently available
- The maintenance schedule and end-of-maintenance date for all versions

> For guidelines on how to upgrade, read [Upgrade Apache Airflow on Astronomer](manage-airflow-versions.md). For information about Astro Runtime's support policy, see [Runtime release and lifecycle policy](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/runtime-version-lifecycle-policy).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For information about upgrading Apache Airflow, see [Upgrade Apache Airflow on Astronomer](manage-airflow-versions.md). For information about the Astro Runtime support policy, see [Runtime release and lifecycle policy](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/runtime-version-lifecycle-policy).
```

> ## Release Channels

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Release channels
```

> To meet the unique needs of different operating environments, Astronomer Certified (AC) versions are associated with the following release channels:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To meet the unique needs of different operating environments, AC versions are associated with the following release channels:
```

- **Stable:** Includes the latest Astronomer and Apache Airflow features, available on release
- **Long-term Support (LTS):** Includes additional testing, stability, and maintenance for a core set of features

> All releases of AC are considered stable. The LTS release channel is a subset of the stable release channel that promises additional stability, reliability, and support from our team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All releases of AC are considered stable. The LTS release channel is a subset of the stable release channel that provides additional stability, reliability, and support from our team.
```

> For users that want to keep up with the latest Astronomer and Airflow features on an incremental basis, we recommend upgrading to new versions of AC as soon as they are made generally available. This should be regardless of release channel. New versions of AC are issued regularly and depend on the Apache Airflow community release schedule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make sure your organization has the latest Astronomer and Airflow features, it is recommended that you upgrade to new versions of AC as soon as they are available. New versions of AC are issued regularly and follow the Apache Airflow release schedule.
```

For customers looking for less frequent upgrades and functional changes, we recommend following the LTS release channel exclusively.

> ## Versioning Scheme

Author: ```suggestion
## Versioning scheme
```

Astronomer Certified follows [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/). This means that Astronomer ships Major, Minor, and Patch releases of AC in the format of `major.minor.patch-hotfix`.

- **Major** versions are released for significant feature additions, including backward-incompatible changes to an API or DAG specification.
- **Minor** versions are released for functional changes, including backward-compatible changes to an API or DAG specification.
- **Patch** versions are released for bug and security fixes that resolve incorrect behavior.
- **Hotfix** versions may include bug or security fixes not yet available in community releases of Apache Airflow.

For AC `2.1.3-5`, for example:

- Major = `2.`
- Minor = `.1`
- Patch = `.3`
- Hotfix = `-5`

> An AC Docker image will be published for every major and minor version of Apache Airflow. For example, AC images that correspond with Apache Airflow 2.0, 2.1, 2.2 etc. will be available on Astronomer as they're released in the open source project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An AC Docker image is published for every major and minor version of Apache Airflow. For example, AC images that correspond with Apache Airflow 2.0, 2.1, 2.2 and so on are available on Astronomer as they're released in the open source project.
```

It is considered safe to upgrade to minor and patch versions within a major version. Upgrade guidance for major and LTS versions is provided with each release. There is no relation between an AC release's version number and its release channel.

> ### Hotfix Versions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Hotfix versions
```

All hotfix releases of AC have a [corresponding changelog](https://github.com/astronomer/ap-airflow/blob/master/2.1.0/CHANGELOG.md) which specifies the date the hotfix was released and all individual changes made to it. Bugs that are reported by the wider Airflow community are often fixed in AC before they are fixed in the subsequent open source release.

> For information on how to upgrade to the latest hotfix release, read [Upgrade to an AC Patch Version](manage-airflow-versions.md#patch-versions-of-astronomer-certified).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To upgrade to the latest hotfix release, see [Upgrade to an AC Patch Version](manage-airflow-versions.md#patch-versions-of-astronomer-certified).
```

### Distribution

AC Docker images come in two variants:

- `quay.io/astronomer/ap-airflow:<version>-onbuild`
- `quay.io/astronomer/ap-airflow:<version>`

> For example, the images for Astronomer Certified 2.3.1 would be:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the images for Astronomer Certified 2.3.1 are:
```

- `quay.io/astronomer/ap-airflow:2.3.1`
- `quay.io/astronomer/ap-airflow:2.3.1-onbuild`

:::info

Earlier versions of Astronomer Certified might use different formatting in their image tags. For a complete list of available images and tags, see [Astronomer on Quay.io](https://quay.io/repository/astronomer/ap-airflow?tab=tags).

:::

> For the smoothest, out-of-the-box Airflow experience, we strongly recommend and default to `buster-onbuild` images in your project's `Dockerfile`. These images incorporate Docker ONBUILD commands to copy and scaffold your Astro project directory so you can more easily pass those files to the containers running each core Airflow component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the smoothest, out-of-the-box Airflow experience, Astronomer recommends using the `buster-onbuild` image in your project's `Dockerfile`. These images incorporate Docker ONBUILD commands to copy and scaffold your Astro project directory so you can more easily pass those files to the containers running each core Airflow component.
```

For complex use cases that require customizing AC base image, read [Customize your Airflow image on Astronomer](customize-image.md).

> ## Backport Policy for Bug and Security Fixes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Backport policy for bug and security fixes
```

> If a major stability bug in Astronomer Certified is identified by Astronomer, a fix will be backported to all LTS versions and only the latest stable version. For users on a stable version that is not latest, our team will recommend that you upgrade. Major issues in this category may result in significant delays in task scheduling as well as potential data loss.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a significant bug in Astronomer Certified is identified by Astronomer, a fix is backported to all LTS versions and the latest stable version. If your organization isn't using the latest stable version, Astronomer recommends upgrading to avoid task scheduling delays and potential data loss.
```

> If a major security issue is identified, a fix will be backported and made available as a new AC hotfix version for _all_ available stable and LTS releases. Major issues in this category are classified by a combination of impact and exploitability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a major security issue is identified, a fix will be backported and made available as a new AC hotfix version for _all_ available stable and LTS releases. Major issues in this category are classified by a combination of impact and exploitability.
```
This seems a duplication of the previous statement. I recommend removing it.

In rare instances, the Astronomer team may make an exception and backport a bug or security fix to a release that is beyond the commitment stated above. To submit a request for consideration, please reach out to your customer success manager.

> ## Astronomer Certified Maintenance Policy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Astronomer Certified maintenance policy
```

The maintenance period for an Astronomer Certified version depends on its release channel:

| Release Channel | Maintenance Duration |
| --------------- | -------------------- |
| Stable          | 6 Months             |
| LTS             | 18 Months            |

> For each `major.minor` pair, only the latest patch and hot-fix combination is supported at any given time. If you report an issue with an Astronomer Certified patch or hot-fix version that is not latest, the Astronomer Support team will always ask that you upgrade as a first step to resolution. For example, the Support team encourages any user who reports an issue with Astronomer Certified 2.2.2 to first upgrade to 2.2.3 as soon as it's generally available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each `major.minor` pair, only the latest patch and hot-fix combination is supported at any given time. If you report an issue with an Astronomer Certified patch or hot-fix version that is not latest, the Astronomer Support team will always ask that you upgrade as a first step to resolution. For example, organizations reporting issues with Astronomer Certified 2.2.2 will be asked to upgrade to 2.2.3.
```

Within the maintenance window of each Astronomer Certified version, the following is true:

> - A Python wheel and set of Docker images corresponding to that version are available for download via [Quay.io](http://quay.io), PyPi and [Downloads](https://www.astronomer.io/downloads).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A Python wheel and set of Docker images corresponding to that version are available for download here [Quay.io](http://quay.io), PyPi and here [Downloads](https://www.astronomer.io/downloads).
```

- Astronomer will regularly publish hotfixes for bug or security issues identified as high priority.

> - The Astronomer Support team will offer support for paying customers running a supported version of AC via the [Astronomer support portal](https://support.astronomer.io).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Paying customers running a supported version of AC can submit support requests on the [Astronomer support portal](https://support.astronomer.io).
```

- A user can create a new Airflow Deployment via the Software UI, CLI, or API with any supported version of AC.

When the maintenance window for a version of AC ends, the following is true:

- The Astronomer Support team is not obligated to answer questions regarding an Airflow Deployment that is running that version.
- New Airflow Deployments cannot be created with that version of AC. Unsupported versions will _not_ render as an option in the Deployment creation process from the Software UI, API, or CLI.

> - In the latest version of the Astro CLI,  a warning appears when a user pushes a Docker image to Astronomer that corresponds to that version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A warning appears in the latest version of the Astro CLI when you or a member of your organization pushes a Docker image to Astronomer that corresponds to that version.
```

To ensure reliability, service is not interrupted when Astronomer Deployments are running unsupported versions of AC. You can use the Astro CLI to access unsupported AC versions for local development and testing.

### End of Maintenance Date

Maintenance is discontinued the last day of the month for a given version. For example, if the maintenance window for a version of Astronomer Certified is January - June of a given year, that version will be maintained by Astronomer until the last day of June.

> ## Astronomer Certified Lifecycle Schedule

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Astronomer Certified lifecycle schedule
```

<!--- Version-specific -->

The following tables contain the exact lifecycle for each published version of Astronomer Certified. These timelines are based on the LTS and Stable release channel maintenance policies.

> ### Stable Releases

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Stable releases
```
